README.md, before:

# ShoppingList [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Tinitto/ShoppingList.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Tinitto/ShoppingList) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Tinitto/ShoppingList/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/Tinitto/ShoppingList?branch=master)
An app that allows you to keep and share a list of the items you want to spend money on

## About
This project is part of the [Andela Fellowship](https://andela.com/) Self Learning Clinic Curriculum.

The ShoppingList app is a web application meant to help users keep track of their shopping items easily. 

It also enables users to share such lists with other people for example if the shopper and the list compiler are different people.

## Dependencies
1. Bootstrap version 4.0.0-alpha
2. Jquery version 3.2.1
3. popper.js version 1.11.1+
4. Flask version 0.12+
5. Python version 3.5+

## Demo
There is a demo on [Heroku](https://shoppinglist-andela-2.herokuapp.com).

## Composition
1. [Wireframes](https://github.com/Tinitto/ShoppingList/tree/master/wireframes) drawn with [Pencil](https://pencil.evolus.vn/)
2. [UML class diagram](https://github.com/Tinitto/ShoppingList/tree/master/designs)
3. [HTML/CSS front end](https://github.com/Tinitto/ShoppingList/tree/master/UI)
4. [Flask App](https://github.com/Tinitto/ShoppingList/tree/master/flask_app)

## How to run flask application
1. Clone the repository to your computer
2. Activate your virtualenv
3. In your terminal, enter the directory ShoppingList
4. run the following command to install the app package into your virtualenv (Don't forget the dot at the end)

    ``` pip install -r requirements.txt ```

5. To start the app, run the following commands in succession still in the same directory

    ```export FLASK_APP=flask_app/run.py```

    ```export FLASK_DEBUG=true ```

    ```export DATABASE_URL="sqlite://"```

    ```export APP_SETTINGS="development"```

    ```export SECRET="the-development-key-secret-hide-very-far"```

    ```flask run ```

    _On windows, use 'set' instead of 'export'_


## How to test the flask appliaction
1. Clone the repository to your computer
2. Ensure you have the dependencies on your system
3. Install nose in your virtualenv using your terminal


    ``` pip install nose```

4. run command in the folder ShoppingList/flask_app/

    ```nosetests test ```

5. Observe the output in your terminal

Commit message:

Add note about sqlite in RAM

README.md, after:

# ShoppingList [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Tinitto/ShoppingList.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Tinitto/ShoppingList) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Tinitto/ShoppingList/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/Tinitto/ShoppingList?branch=master)
An app that allows you to keep and share a list of the items you want to spend money on

## About
This project is part of the [Andela Fellowship](https://andela.com/) Self Learning Clinic Curriculum.

The ShoppingList app is a web application meant to help users keep track of their shopping items easily. 

It also enables users to share such lists with other people for example if the shopper and the list compiler are different people.

## Dependencies
1. Bootstrap version 4.0.0-alpha
2. Jquery version 3.2.1
3. popper.js version 1.11.1+
4. Flask version 0.12+
5. Python version 3.5+

## Demo
There is a demo on [Heroku](https://shoppinglist-andela-2.herokuapp.com).

**Note: This demo runs on a postgresql database since heroku doesnot support sqlite. However, cloning the repo will give you access to non-persistent data stored in sqlite stored in memory(RAM) using 'sqlite//' or ``` :memory:```**

## Composition
1. [Wireframes](https://github.com/Tinitto/ShoppingList/tree/master/wireframes) drawn with [Pencil](https://pencil.evolus.vn/)
2. [UML class diagram](https://github.com/Tinitto/ShoppingList/tree/master/designs)
3. [HTML/CSS front end](https://github.com/Tinitto/ShoppingList/tree/master/UI)
4. [Flask App](https://github.com/Tinitto/ShoppingList/tree/master/flask_app)

## How to run flask application
1. Clone the repository to your computer
2. Activate your virtualenv
3. In your terminal, enter the directory ShoppingList
4. run the following command to install the app package into your virtualenv (Don't forget the dot at the end)

    ``` pip install -r requirements.txt ```

5. To start the app, run the following commands in succession still in the same directory

    ```export FLASK_APP=flask_app/run.py```

    ```export FLASK_DEBUG=true ```

    ```export DATABASE_URL="sqlite://"```

    ```export APP_SETTINGS="development"```

    ```export SECRET="the-development-key-secret-hide-very-far"```

    ```flask run ```

    _On windows, use 'set' instead of 'export'_


## How to test the flask appliaction
1. Clone the repository to your computer
2. Ensure you have the dependencies on your system
3. Install nose in your virtualenv using your terminal


    ``` pip install nose```

4. run command in the folder ShoppingList/flask_app/

    ```nosetests test ```

5. Observe the output in your terminal
